well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so today we're going to talk about
assumptions appearances and experts and
what a gate at a construction site can
teach us about that years ago I was
working down in South Florida it's like
15 to 15 years or so ago I get a call
from somebody else in the same line of
work and he's like hey you had any
interest in doing a security survey on a
high-rise construction site
what no of course not that no why would
you no that's not it's not actually my
area well you know what's up why are you
asking me this
he's like well it's for a friend of mine
and he tells me that the guy who
installed the cameras and everything
initially he's a mutual friend of ours
and he's got okay and that after one of
the incidents where they have lost
literally tons of heavy construction
equipment they had a local come out and
check the stuff and everything's still
secure okay so it's a puzzle
yeah I'm vaguely interested and he's
like yeah there's nothing weird going on
there's a human element to this that
we're missing yeah I'll stop by where's
it at assuming it's somewhere close it's
not and he's like well it's a bit of a
drive but it's in the Panhandle
fair enough I haven't been home and like
more than a year sure I'll do it
tell them to set up something's for this
weekend and I grab my bag and get in the
car don't discuss price now if this is a
good point to tell you if you don't know
security consultants are ridiculously
expensive good ones anyway
most companies cannot afford one period
it's just out of their budget okay but
this is a high-rise development I'm
thinking sure maybe so I get up there
assuming I'm meeting a real estate
developer and I'm wearing my pinstripe
shirt and slacks and I walk into the bar
on the beach that he has elected me that
and I see a guy in cutoff torn up blue
jeans flip-flops a polo shirt with paint
on it and he's sunburned this is a
blue-collar guy more than likely this is
a blue-collar guy he probably cannot
afford me but whatever favor for a
friend I'm already up here got to come
home not a big deal
I said now and start talking to him and
he lays out that this has been going on
weeks and they just cannot figure it out
like have you checked your security
guards if you looked into them see if
they owe anybody money anything like
that
oh no no I've known those guys for years
and I'm a great judge of character
okay I least this isn't going to take
long I think I've cracked the case
already if all of your physical security
is working and something is going wrong
it is more than likely your security
staff there's something there it's at
this point that he tells me you don't
look the way I pictured you who really
well what were you picturing anything
why you know to hear of him here my
buddy tell it I thought you'd look like
one of the guys from the news thought I
was gonna look like somebody from
Blackwater great no I don't even own a
pair of oak leaves let's just get to the
site you know at this point he waves to
the staff to put our mill on his tab we
go out to his truck which is a 1989 Ford
Explorer with dents in the door the
interior is covered in stains and ripped
up seats and I am certain at this point
that I am building my buddy for this
little adventure we get to the
construction site driving up to it it
looks like a normal one high-rise
building there's a gate everything looks
to be functioning first glance his chief
guard is there and I started asking him
questions and you can tell this guy has
answered these questions like a hundred
times and he's already annoyed but to be
honest I don't care like all these
cameras work right yeah they work and
you've reviewed them for the timing
question yeah of course this is the only
entrance no no there's a boardwalk on
the back it has cameras too and they
work and I've reviewed them alright
whatever be like that and I started
asking him whose guards are maybe I know
what's their name you know trying to get
their full name so I can kind of dig
into them later we start walking around
the site get to where the boardwalk is
and there's no it's highly unlikely that
somebody is taking apart heavy
construction equipment willing it down
this thing and then willing it down the
beach and honestly if they are doing it
good for them you know they've heard
that looked like a lot of work and the
cameras are there and they would have
been spotted we walk around the next
corner and there's a gate there's a gate
in the fence and I'm like what's this
and he's like well that's where they
brought the crane in I'm like it's an
entrance he's like oh no no no that's
been locked for months and here we go
okay
do you mind opening it for me now what
I'm expecting to happen at this point is
for him to pull out his keys and go oh
wow they're missing golly gee whiz I
don't know how that happened because you
gave me to the people that were stealing
stuff but that's not what happened he
pulled out the keys
both keys are there to the padlock
they're both marked slides it in but it
doesn't turn well that's surprising
that's not what I expected to happen
right there and I start looking at the
chain and the lock that's been sitting
for months in the air by the beach the
salt air there's no surface rust on not
in Florida okay
somebody cut your lock off and put their
own on somebody's really smart because
anybody walking by who's a physical
security person they're gonna grab the
lock they're gonna yank on it it's
secured that's what they're gonna do cut
it off
replace this put up a camera sure enough
a couple days later somebody came up and
tried to unlock now the project manager
the guy in the cut-offs
he reaches for his wallet and what do I
owe you like he's gonna slip me a 20 or
something like no no we're we're good
you know after talking to the guy my my
read on him is that he's he's like the
forum and the project manager whatever
he's rattling his network trying to do
his job and if he didn't get it done he
probably would got fired fine fair
enough you know whatever glad I could
help
don't worry about it not a big deal he's
like well at least let me buy you a
drink a mistake sure I will always take
a drink in a steak it is over this mill
that I find out the reason he was able
to put our first mill on a tab is
because he owns that restaurant and he
owns the high-rise and a couple others
and another restaurant we hate that
later he was a blue-collar guy that made
it big during the real estate thing just
never changed never showed it off really
cool guy actually worked for him a
couple of times after this the point of
all of this there's a couple of things
we can take away from it number one
don't judge people by their appearances
you'll be wrong a lot number two just
because something appears to be secure
doesn't mean that it is doesn't mean
that it is and we can take away
something about experts right now
there's a whole bunch of people who are
taking advice from people who seem to
have credentials dr. Phil dr. oz at
chiropractor none of these people have
ever actually studied the subject at
hand
their opinion does not matter they're a
lot like the guy that did the spot check
they did everything they know to do but
that doesn't matter because that wasn't
really the area that needed an expert it
needed somebody that had a different
skill set the physical security guy
didn't do anything wrong he did his job
to the letter
everything was secured but he didn't
think beyond that these TV doctors and
these pundits they're going against the
general consensus of the people who have
spent their lives in that field who
spent their lives studying how to
control stuff like this their opinion
doesn't matter they may not be seeing
something or maybe they're like kind of
what I thought the security guard was
doing maybe they have an ulterior motive
right now everything is closed up the
gates are up it's a lot like that
construction site but if we open it even
a little even that side gate you can
turn up with missing equipment or
missing people it does not matter what
the political pundits say it's
completely irrelevant we are going to
have to safer at home shelter in place
type thing social distance until we have
an effective reliable available
treatment or vaccine nothing is going to
change that no amount of debate will
shift that that's the reality you can
whine and cry about it all you want you
can present whatever set of alternative
facts you want but the reality is if you
cut that lock off and put your own on
for your own agenda it's gonna go bad
so takeaways don't assume that somebody
who looks like a beach bum is follow the
experts that actually are experts in the
field you need and just because
something appears to be secure it
doesn't mean that it is anyway it's just
a thought y'all have a good day